Integration with Jest (#1731)
software-mansion/react-native-reanimated: docs/docs/testing.md

---
id: testing
title: "Testing with Jest"
sidebar_label: "Testing with Jest"
---

Reanimated test mocks use web implementation of Reanimated2. Before you begin using Reanimated mocks you need some setup actions.

## Setup

> To your `jest-setup.js` file add the following line:

Reviewer: IMO the other way around it reads more natural.

```suggestion
Add the following line to your `jest-setup.js` file:
```

```js
require('./node_modules/react-native-reanimated/src/reanimated2/jestUtils').setUpTests();
```

> `setUpTests({ fps: 60 })` can take optional config argument with specific frameRate. By default it is 60fps.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`setUpTests()` can take optional config argument. Default config is `{ fps: 60 }`, setting framerate to 60fps.
```

> `setUpTests()` can take optional config argument. Default config is `{ fps: 60 }`, setting framerate to 60fps. 

Reviewer: Trailing whitespace.

> To be sure, check your `jest.config.js` file to contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be sure, check if your `jest.config.js` file contains:
```

```js
...
preset: 'react-native',
setupFiles: ['./jest-setup.js'],
...
```

## API

#### Style checker
- Checking equality of selected styles with current component styles
  #### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle)`

>   `component: obj` - tested component  

Reviewer: I don't think this type annotation adds much value here.

```suggestion
  `component` - tested component  
```

>   `expectedStyle` - conntains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `expectedStyle` - contains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`
```

>   `expectedStyle` - conntains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`    

Reviewer: Trailing whitespace.

>   `expectedStyle: obj ` - conntains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `expectedStyle` - conntains expected styles of testing component, for example `{ width: 100 }`  
```

> - Checking equality all current component styles with expected styles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Checking equality of all current component styles with expected styles
```

>   #### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle, true)`

Reviewer: What do you think about this API?

I prefer explicit parameter names and this would allow us to extend the API in the future if needed.

```suggestion
  #### `expect(component).toHaveAnimatedStyle(expectedStyle, {exact: true})`
```

Author: Good idea 👍

- You can get all styles of tested component by using `getDefaultStyle`
  #### `getDefaultStyle(component)`  

>   `component: obj` - tested component  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `component` - tested component  
```

>   `component` - tested component    

Reviewer: Trailing whitespace.

#### Timers
You can use jest timers to control animation
```js
jest.useFakeTimers();
// call animation
jest.runAllTimers();
```
If you want more control over animation, you can use Reanimated wrapper for timers:
```js
withReanimatedTimer(() => {
  // call animation
})
```

> inside of `withReanimatedTimer` you can use `moveAnimationByTime(timeInMs)` or `moveAnimationByFrame(amountOfFrames)` functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of `withReanimatedTimer` you can use `moveAnimationByTime(timeInMs)` or `moveAnimationByFrame(amountOfFrames)` functions
```

> - Move animation by specific time. You can select time of running animation and check value of style after this time.
>   #### `moveAnimationByTime(timeInMs)`
>   `timeInMs: number` - time of runing animation  

Reviewer: Best I could come up with.

```suggestion
- Move animation by a specified number of frames. You can specify the running duration of the animation and check the value of styles afterward.
  #### `moveAnimationByTime(timeInMs)`
  `timeInMs` - the duration specifying for how long animation should be moved forward. Should have an integer value.
```

- Move animation by specific amount of animation frame.

>   #### `moveAnimationByFrame(amountOfFrame)`
>   `amountOfFrames: number` - amount of frames of animation to run  

Reviewer: Maybe `amountOfFrames` should be renamed to `numberOfFrames`?

```suggestion
  #### `moveAnimationByFrame(numberOfFrames)`
  `numberOfFrames` - number of animation frames to run. Should have an integer value.
```

>   `numberOfFrames` - number of animation frames to run. Should have an integer value.  

Reviewer: Trailing whitespace.
